Rewrite the Pipelines tutorial for clarity and flow. (#2068)
tektoncd/pipeline: docs/tutorial.md

# Tekton Pipelines Tutorial

This tutorial uses a simple `Hello World` example to show you how to:

> - Create a `Task`,

Author: Done.

> - Create a `Pipeline` containing your `Tasks`,

Author: Done.

- Use a `TaskRun` to instantiate and execute a `Task` outside of a `Pipeline`,

> - Use a `PipelineRun` to instantiate and run a `Pipeline` containing your `Tasks`.

Author: Done.

This tutorial consists of the following sections:

> - [Creating and running a `Task`](#creating-and-running-a-task)

Reviewer: I actually prefer the original phrasing of `a hello world`, but perhaps what could be done here is to actually describe in greater detail what the task/pipeline do? 

I think the first Task executed independent of the pipeline is literally a hello world task and the next one is a Task that builds an image and is also used for the example Pipeline.

Author: I don't think we need to get this specific in the section titles. The code is self-explanatory.

Reviewer: On second time through, I think this is actually fine. Sorry.

    name: echo-hello-world
```

> Apply your YAML files as follows:

Author: Reworded.

> Apply your YAML files to the build as follows:

Reviewer: I prefer the original wording. Was there a reason to you that this was not clear?

Author: A documentation best practice is to always begin a step with an action, hence "Apply." You also want to be consistent with the rest of the document in that regard.

Reviewer: Maybe then `to the build` is throwing this off? There isn't really a build concept for Tekton. Perhaps it could be `Apply your YAML file using the following command:`

Author: Yeah, I agree. Let me remove "to the build."

```bash
kubectl apply -f <name-of-file.yaml>
```

> To check whether running your `Task` succeeded, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check whether running your `TaskRun` succeeded, use the following command:
```

Author: Nit, but doesnt' a TaskRun run your Task?

Reviewer: Ah, I see the running part that makes this confusing. Maybe it would be better to say `To check whether your TaskRun succeeded, use the following command:`? TaskRuns are what have the status of success or failure and the command used below is for a TaskRun (i.e. tkn taskrun describe`).

Author: That makes perfect sense, I'll chage it to `TaskRun`.

```bash
tkn taskrun describe echo-hello-world-task-run
```

> Below is the example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will get output similar to the following:
```

Author: Another best practice is to avoid future tense and keep everything in present tense to keep the reader "in the moment." "Below is an example output:" is less wordy than the original.

Reviewer: Sure, but I think the problem here is that the user will not see the same output so there should be some kind of phrasing that will need to be future tense. I think there needs to be something to communicate that this output is similar to what the user will see from the above command. This is more meant to make sure the user is prepared for what to expect.

Author: I get what you mean, though I think "example output" is very clear that it's just an example and the user will obviously not see that exact output.

Reviewer: I think we should assume nothing is obvious, especially if a user is just getting started. I think we at all times want to make sure the user has the ability to check herself or himself to make sure everything is going smoothly.

echo
```

> The `Succeeded` status confirms that the `Task` completed with no errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Succeeded` status confirms that the `TaskRun` completed with no errors.
```

Author: Again, nit, but doesn't a `TaskRun` run the `Task`?

> To see more detail about the execution of your `TaskRun`, view its logs as follows:

Author: I think it's obvious that what follows is a command.

```bash
tkn taskrun logs echo-hello-world-task-run
```

> Below is the example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will get output similar to the following:
```

Author: Same as above. This is less wordy than your suggestion.

Author: Done.

```
[echo] hello world
```

> ### Specifying the inputs and outputs for your `Task`

Reviewer: I prefer the original title here. Was there a reason you felt this is not clear?

Author: Same as before. You want to start with an action to indicate you're about to complete a procedure. "Task Inputs and Outputs" is a little vague in the context of the tutorial's flow. You also want to be consistent with the rest of the headings in the document.

Reviewer: Maybe then `Specifying Task Inputs and Outputs`?

Author: Sure, that's cleaner than my version.

> In more complex scenarios, a `Task` requires you to define your inputs and outputs. For example a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In more complex scenarios, a `Task` requires you to define inputs and outputs. For example, a
```

Author: I like your version better.

`Task` could fetch source code from a GitHub repository and build a Docker image from it.

> Use one or more [`PipelineResources`](resources.md) to define the artifacts you'd like to pass in

Reviewer: I prefer the original wording used here.

Author: Why? It's a lot harder to parse and is passive. The new wording is clearer and actionable, IMHO. Is it missing a crucial detail? I can re-add the bit about system-defined types if it's absolutely necessary for the reader.

Reviewer: I guess I prefer this wording: [`PipelineResources`](resources.md) are used to define the artifacts that can be
passed in and out of a `Task` since the concept is just being introduced for the first time. But I agree that `There are a few system defined resource types ready
to use, and the following are two examples of the resources commonly needed.` can be replaced with `The following are examples of the most commonly needed resources.`

Author: In this particular case, the two sentences convey the same exact technical information. The only difference is the passive vs. active voice: "X are used to do Y" vs "use X to do Y". I think the double passive ("X are used to define artifacts to be passed") voice is harder to parse, IMHO.

Reviewer: I think it's a more graceful transition into the topic. It's trying to teach the concept, not give an instruction so I think it reads fine as is, but I can leave this alone if it's something you feel strongly one.

I would just ask that `you'd` be replaced with `you would`.

Author: Done.

      value: https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/skaffold #configure: change if you want to build something else, perhaps from your own local git repository.
```

> The [`image` resource](resources.md#image-resource) specifies the image that the `Task` will build:

Author: Reworded.

  - name: regcred
```

Once everything is in place, apply your YAML file to start using the `ServiceAccount` in your build:

```bash
kubectl apply -f <name-of-file.yaml>
```

### Running your `Task`

You are now ready for your first `TaskRun`!

> A `TaskRun` executes the steps in your `Task`, binds the inputs and outputs to already defined `PipelineResources`,

Author: Reworded.

          name: skaffold-image-leeroy-web
```

Apply your YAML files that contain your `Task`, `TaskRun`, and `PipelineResource` definitions as follows:

```bash
kubectl apply -f <name-of-file.yaml>
```

> To examine the resources you've created so far, use the following command:

Author: Reworded.

```bash
kubectl get tekton-pipelines
```

> Below is an example output:

Author: Reworded.

tasks/build-docker-image-from-git-source   7m
```

To see the result of executing your `TaskRun`, use the following command:

```bash
tkn taskrun describe build-docker-image-from-git-source-task-run
```

> Below is an example output:

Author: Reworded.

image-digest-exporter-hlbsq
```

The `Succeeded` status indicates the `Task` has completed with no errors. You

> can also confirm that the output Docker image has been created in the location you specified.

Author: Fixed.

To view detailed information about the execution of your `TaskRun`, view the logs:

```bash
tkn taskrun logs build-docker-image-from-git-source-task-run
```

## Creating and running a `Pipeline`

A [`Pipeline`](pipelines.md) defines an ordered series of `Tasks` that you want to execute

> along with the inputs and outputs of each `Task`. You can specify whether the output of one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
along with corresponding inputs and outputs for each `Task`. You can specify whether the output of one
```

Author: Reworded.

> `Task` is used as an input for the next `Task` using the [`from`](pipelines.md#from).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Task` is used as an input for the next `Task` using the [`from`](pipelines.md#from) property.
```

Author: Fixed.

image-digest-exporter-hlbsq
```

The `Succeeded` status indicates the `Task` has completed with no errors. You
can also confirm that the output Docker image has been created in the location specified in the resource definition.

To view detailed information about the execution of your `TaskRun`, view the logs:

```bash
tkn taskrun logs build-docker-image-from-git-source-task-run
```

## Creating and running a `Pipeline`

A [`Pipeline`](pipelines.md) defines an ordered series of `Tasks` that you want to execute

> along with the along with corresponding inputs and outputs for each `Task`. You can specify whether the output of one

Reviewer 2: typo - along with the along with

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/pull/2213.

          value: "spec.template.spec.containers[0].image"
```

> The above `Pipeline` is referencing a `Task` called `deploy-using-kubectl` defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above `Pipeline` is referencing a `Task` called `deploy-using-kubectl`, which is defined below:
```

Author: The two wordings convey the same meaning.

```

> To run your `Pipeline`, instantiate it with a [`PipelineRun`](pipelineruns.md) as follows:

Reviewer: Should be future tense as user won't create PipelineRun here:

```suggestion
To run your `Pipeline`, you will create it with a [`PipelineRun`](pipelineruns.md) that is defined below:
```

Author: Original statement conveys the same meaning.

        name: skaffold-image-leeroy-web
```

> The `PipelineRun` automatically defines a corresponding `TaskRun` for each `Task` you've defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PipelineRun` automatically defines a corresponding `TaskRun` for each `Task` you have defined
```

Author: Fixed.

> in your `Pipeline`. It also  and collect the results of running each `Task`. In our example, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in your `Pipeline`. The `PipelineRun` will also collect the result of each `TaskRun`. In our example, the
```

Author: Fixed.

`TaskRun` order is as follows:

1. `tutorial-pipeline-run-1-build-skaffold-web` runs `build-skaffold-web`,
   since it has no [`from` or `runAfter` clauses](pipelines.md#ordering).

> 1. `tutorial-pipeline-run-1-deploy-web`  runs `deploy-web`, because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `tutorial-pipeline-run-1-deploy-web` runs `deploy-web` because
```

Author: Fixed.

>    its [input](tasks.md#inputs) `web-image` comes [`from`](pipelines.md#from)

Reviewer: `from` already has a link to it previously. Is another necessary?

   `build-skaffold-web`. Thus, `build-skaffold-web` must run before `deploy-web`.

> Apply the above YAML files as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the `Task`, `Pipeline`, and `PipelineRun` definitions above to a file and apply the file with the following command:
```

Author: Fixed.

```bash
kubectl apply -f <name-of-file.yaml>
```

> **Note:** Also apply the `deploy-task` or the `PipelineRun` will not execute.

Reviewer: Should be mentioned before the apply command. My suggestion above covers this but could be more explicit to mention the name of the Task, Pipeline.

> You can monitor the execution of your `PipelineRun` in realtime as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor the live execution of your `PipelineRun` with the following `tkn` command:
```

Author: This is implied. If it's not live then you couldn't monitor it, only check the outcome afterwards.

```bash
tkn pipelinerun logs tutorial-pipeline-run-1 -f
```

> To view the output of your `PipelineRun`, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view detailed information about your `PipelineRun`, use the following command:
```

Author: Reworded.

```bash
tkn pipelinerun describe tutorial-pipeline-run-1
```

> Below is an example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see output similar to the following:
```

Author: Fixed.

tutorial-pipeline-run-1-build-skaffold-web-7jgjh   build-skaffold-web   4 hours ago   1 minute     Succeeded
```

> The `Succeded` status indicates that your `Pipeline` completed without errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Succeded` status indicates that your `PipelineRun` completed without errors.
```

Author: Fixed.

> You can also see the statuses of the individual `Tasks`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also see the statuses of the individual `TaskRuns`.
```

> ## (Optional) Running this tutorial locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running this tutorial locally
```
